<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="safety">
    <title>kitchen safety.</title>
    <shortdesc>How to Be Safe in Kitchens</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>
            <hazardstatement >
                <messagepanel>
                    <typeofhazard>Preventing Fires</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid><ph id="fire1">Don't leave oil on your stove or overfill pots or pans with hot oil. 
                        Cooking oil can be a dangerous product if it is overheated or spills over onto a hot burner.</ph></howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>Keep a proper fire extinguisher handy. Make sure it is labelled ABC for electrical and chemical fires, 
                        and be sure it is charged and up to date.</howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>Be aware of the surfaces near the stove burners. Leaving paper towels, plastic wrappers, 
                        or other flammable materials near stove elements can result in a fire.</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>
        
            <hazardstatement >
                <messagepanel>
                    <typeofhazard>Food safety</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid>
                        <ph id="food1">Do not allow cross contamination between uncooked meats and foods that are eaten raw. 
                        Consider keeping a chopping board specifically for raw meat, and cleaning it thoroughly after each use.</ph></howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>
                        Cook meat thoroughly to kill any pathogens that may cause illness.</howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>
                        Keep foods cold that require refrigeration. If you're not sure, look up the safe storage requirements online; different foods require different temperatures for safety, 
                        and can be kept for different lengths of time before going bad</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>
        
            <hazardstatement>
                <messagepanel>
                    <typeofhazard>Sharp objects</typeofhazard>
                    <howtoavoid><ph id="sharp1">Keep knives in a safe storage location when not in use. If you have children around, make particularly sure this storage is out of reach.</ph></howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>Be careful with kitchen shears, sharp forks, or other tools. Beware of putting them point up in the dishwasher or any storage containers; 
                        try to store and transport them point down, and don't leave them in open dishwashers if you have children in the home.</howtoavoid>
                    <howtoavoid>Clean up broken glassware or china carefully. These can cause painful cuts. If you do have an accident involving sharp shattered pieces, 
                        clear any children out of the area and ensure the people cleaning it up are wearing shoes.</howtoavoid>
                </messagepanel>
            </hazardstatement>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
