<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossgroup PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary Group//EN" "glossgroup.dtd">
<glossgroup id="Untitled">
    <title>Mediterannean Food</title>

    <glossentry id="Bab">
        <glossterm>Baba ghanoush</glossterm>
        <glossdef> is a Levantine appetizer of mashed cooked eggplant mixed with tahini (made from sesame seeds), olive oil, 
            possibly lemon juice, and various seasonings.Traditionally, mutabbal is the condiment aforedescribed and baba ghanoush 
            is more like a salad dip made with pomegranate molasses (or pomegranate seeds) and olive oil, and often without tahini. 
            It may be mixed with onions, tomatoes, or other vegetables.
            The traditional preparation method is for the eggplant to be baked or broiled over an open flame before peeling, 
            so that the pulp is soft and has a smoky taste.It is a typical meze ('starter') of the regional cuisine, 
            often eaten as a dip with pita bread, and is sometimes added to other dishes.
            Sometimes called "poor man's caviar".</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Bor">
        <glossterm>Börek</glossterm>
        <glossdef> is a family of baked filled pastries made of a thin flaky dough such as phyllo or yufka, of Anatolian origins and also found in the cuisines of the Balkans, 
            the South Caucasus, Levant, Mediterranean, and other countries in Eastern Europe and Western Asia. 
            A börek may be prepared in a large pan and cut into portions after baking, or as individual pastries. 
            The top of the börek is occasionally sprinkled with sesame or nigella seeds.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    
    <glossentry id="Dol">
        <glossterm>Dolma</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Dolma is a family of stuffed dishes common in Mediterranean cuisine and surrounding regions including the Balkans, 
            the South Caucasus, Central Asia, India and the Middle East. Common vegetables to stuff include tomato, pepper, onion, zucchini, eggplant, garlic, 
            Cabbage rolls, Pointed gourd and dishes of stuffed vine leaves are also very popular, and these are sometimes also called sarma in Middle East and dorma in India. 
            Meat dolmas are generally served warm, often with tahini or avgolemono sauce. Dolmas prepared with olive oil and stuffed with rice are generally served cold with a garlic-yogurt sauce. 
            Stuffed vegetables are also common in Greek cuisine, called gemista, as well as in Italian cuisine, where they are named ripieni ("stuffed").</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Fa">
        <glossterm>Falafel</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Falafel is a deep-fried ball, or a flat or doughnut-shaped patty, made from ground chickpeas, fava beans, or both. Herbs, spices, 
            and onion relatives are commonly added to the dough. It is a very famous Middle Eastern dish that most likely originated in Egypt.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Gaz">
        <glossterm>Gazpacho</glossterm>
        <glossdef> or Andalusian gazpacho is a cold soup made of raw, blended vegetables. A classic of Spanish cuisine, it originated in the southern region of Andalusia. 
            Gazpacho is widely eaten in Spain and Portugal, particularly during hot summers, as it is refreshing and cool.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Gn">
        <glossterm>Gnocchi</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Gnocchi are a variety of pasta consisting of various thick, small, and soft dough dumplings that may be made from semolina, ordinary wheat flour, egg, 
            cheese, potato, breadcrumbs, cornmeal or similar ingredients, and possibly including flavourings of herbs, vegetables, cocoa or prunes.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Gy">
        <glossterm>Gyros</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Gyros is a Greek dish made from meat cooked on a vertical rotisserie. Like shawarma and tacos al pastor, 
            it is derived from the lamb-based doner kebab.[1][2] In Greece it is now most often pork or chicken, while a mixture of beef 
            and lamb is common in the US and other countries. It is typically served wrapped or stuffed in a pita, 
            along with ingredients such as tomato, onion, and tzatziki sauce.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Hum">
        <glossterm>Hummus</glossterm>
        <glossdef> is a Levantine dip or spread made from cooked, mashed chickpeas or other beans, blended with tahini, olive oil, 
            lemon juice, salt, and garlic.[3] It is popular in the Middle East and Mediterranean, as well as in Middle Eastern cuisine around the globe. 
            It can also be found in most grocery stores in North America and Europe.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    
    <glossentry id="Kou">
        <glossterm>Koulourakia</glossterm>
        <glossdef> They are a butter-based pastry, traditionally hand-shaped, with egg glaze on top. They have a sweet delicate flavor with a hint of vanilla. 
            Koulourakia are well known for their sprinkle of sesame seeds and distinctive ring shape.
            In fact, the word is the diminutive form for a ring-shaped loaf or lifebelt.
            The pastries can be shaped into braided circles,hairpin twists, figure eights, twisted wreaths, horseshoes or Greek letters, although they are still 
            often shaped into a snake style. Often, a clove is added atop the center of the pastry for added flavor. They are commonly eaten with morning coffee or afternoon tea. 
            Like all pastries, they are normally kept in dry conditions in a jar with a lockable lid.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    
   
    <glossentry id="Lec">
        <glossterm>Lechazo</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Lechazo is a Spanish dish made from "cordero lechal". The meat used is from unweaned lambs, and is similar to veal, or the meat of "cochinillo" 
            (Spanish suckling pigs like tostón asado). The province of Castile and León has a distinctive version of lechazo referred to as "Lechazo de Castilla y Leon". 
            It is one of the most important dishes of the cuisine of the province of Valladolid. Also, Aranda de Duero is known as the heart of the dish, 
            with numerous restaurants that specialize in lechazo and feature "hornos de leña", or wooden stoves, in which the lamb is roasted.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
   
    <glossentry id="Mus">
        <glossterm>Moussaka</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Moussaka is an eggplant- (aubergine) or potato-based dish, often including ground meat, in the Levant, Middle East, and Balkans, with many local and regional variations.
            The most famous version of the dish today appeared in the 1920s with the publishing of Nikolaos Tselementes' culinary book in Greece. 
            Many versions have a top layer made of milk-based sauce thickened with egg (custard) or flour (béchamel sauce). 
            In Greece, the dish is layered and typically served hot. In Turkey, thinly sliced eggplant is fried and served in a tomato-based meat sauce. 
            Turkish mussaka may be consumed warm or at room temperature. In the Arab countries it is often eaten cold, but is also served hot in some regions.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Pae">
        <glossterm>Paella</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Paella is one of the best known dishes in the Spanish cuisine. For this reason it may be seen internationally 
            as Spain's national dish, but Spaniards almost unanimously consider it to be a dish from the Valencian region; 
            those who live there, in turn, regard paella as one of their identifying symbols.
            Paella takes its name from the wide, shallow traditional pan used to cook the dish on an open fire. Paella means "frying pan" 
            in Valencian, Valencia's regional language.
            As a dish it may have ancient roots, but its modern form it is traced back to the mid-19th century, 
            in the rural area around the Albufera lagoon adjacent to the city of Valencia, on the east coast of Spain[2]</glossdef>
    </glossentry> 
    
    <glossentry id="Pas">
        <glossterm>Pastilla</glossterm>
        <glossdef>Pastilla is a traditional Moroccan dish of Andalusian origin consumed in countries of the Maghreb, 
            as well as in countries of the Sephardic Jewish diaspora such as Israel, France, and North America. It has also spread to Algeria, 
            Tunisia, Pastilla is said to be "uniquely Moroccan, intricate and grand, fabulously rich and fantastical". 
            as well as Israel and France with the arrival of the Moroccan Jews.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Piz">
        <glossterm>Pizza</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Pizza (Italian: [ˈpittsa], Neapolitan: [ˈpittsə]) is a savory dish of Italian origin, consisting of a usually round, flattened base of leavened wheat-based dough topped with tomatoes, cheese, and often various other ingredients (anchovies, olives, meat, etc.) baked at a high temperature, traditionally in a wood-fired oven.[1] A small pizza is sometimes called a pizzetta.
            
            In Italy, pizza served in formal settings, such as at a restaurant, is presented unsliced and eaten with the use of a knife and fork.[2][3] In casual settings it is cut into wedges to be eaten while held in the hand.
            
            The term pizza was first recorded in the 10th century in a Latin manuscript from the Southern Italian town of Gaeta in Lazio, on the border with Campania.
            Modern pizza was invented in Naples, and the dish and its variants have since become popular in many countries. It has become one of the most popular foods 
            in the world and a common fast food item in Europe and North America, available at pizzerias (restaurants specializing in pizza), 
            restaurants offering Mediterranean cuisine, and via pizza delivery.Many companies sell ready-baked frozen pizzas to be reheated in an ordinary home oven.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Ris">
        <glossterm>Risotto</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Risotto is a northern Italian rice dish cooked with broth until it reaches a creamy consistency. 
            The broth can be derived from meat, fish, or vegetables. Many types of risotto contain butter, onion, white wine, and parmesan cheese. 
            It is one of the most common ways of cooking rice in Italy. Saffron was originally used for flavour and its signature yellow colour.
            Risotto in Italy is normally a first course served before the main course, but risotto alla milanese is often served with ossobuco 
            alla milanese as a main course.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Spa">
        <glossterm>Spaghetti</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Spaghetti is a long, thin, solid, cylindrical pasta. It is a staple food of traditional Italian cuisine. Like other pasta, spaghetti 
            is made of milled wheat and water and sometimes enriched with vitamins and minerals. Italian spaghetti is typically made from durum wheat semolina.
            Usually the pasta is white because refined flour is used, but whole wheat flour may be added. Spaghettoni is a thicker form of spaghetti, while capellini is a very thin spaghetti.
            Originally, spaghetti was notably long, but shorter lengths gained in popularity during the latter half of the 20th century and now it is most commonly available 
            in 25–30 cm (10–12 in) lengths. A variety of pasta dishes are based on it, and it is frequently served with tomato sauce or meat or vegetables.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="SpaVo">
        <glossterm>Spaghetti alle vongole</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Italians prepare this dish two ways: in bianco, i.e., with oil, garlic, parsley, and sometimes a splash of white wine; and in rosso, 
            like the former but with tomatoes and fresh basil, the addition of tomatoes being more frequent in the south. Traditionally, the bivalves are cooked quickly 
            in hot olive oil to which plenty of garlic has been added. The live clams open during cooking, releasing a liquid that serves as the primary flavoring agent.
            The clams are then added to the firm pasta (spaghetti, linguine, or vermicelli), along with salt, black pepper (or red pepper), and a handful of finely chopped parsley.
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    
    
    <glossentry id="Tab">
        <glossterm>Tabbouleh</glossterm>
        <glossdef>is a Levantine vegetarian salad made mostly of finely chopped parsley, with tomatoes, mint, onion, bulgur 
            (soaked, not cooked), and seasoned with olive oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Some variations add garlic or lettuce, 
            or use couscous instead of bulgur. It is a national dish of Lebanon.
            Tabbouleh is traditionally served as part of a mezze</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
  
    
    <glossentry id="Tza">
        <glossterm>Tzatziki</glossterm>
        <glossdef> Tzatziki, cacık or tarator is a dip, soup, or sauce found in the cuisines of Southeast Europe and the Middle East. 
            It is made of salted strained yogurt or diluted yogurt mixed with cucumbers, garlic, salt, olive oil, sometimes with vinegar or lemon juice, 
            and herbs such as dill, mint, parsley and thyme. It is generally served as a cold appetizer (meze) or a side dish.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    
    <glossentry id="Yuv">
        <glossterm>Yuvarlakia</glossterm>
        <glossdef> are a Greek meatball (kefte κεφτέ) made of beef and rice or bulgur and cooked in moist heat; i
            t is also a dish of these meatballs in tomato or avgolemono sauce.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    

    
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
</glossgroup>


