<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="security">
    <title>Security</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Plan and implement specific security measures to protect the application and the data it manages,
            especially when you deploy IBM StoredIQ into sensitive environments.</p>
            <p>IBM StoredIQ keeps your data secure through encryption, security hardening, and auditing.</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>
                        FIPS is a standard recommended by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the
                        US Federal Government. It ensures certain security standards are met for software or hardware
                        components deployed at US government sites. Enabling FIPS ensures that the SSL/TLS engine that is
                        compliant with the US Government recommendation is used. IBM StoredIQ supports FIPS Level 1.</p>
                        <p>Secure gateway communication can be enabled without FIPS. If FIPS is enabled, IBM StoredIQ uses FIPS
                        compliant versions of OpenSSL.
                    </p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Secure communication and encryption of data in motion</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>In a production environment, you should configure or install certificates on the AppStack to enable HTTPS
                        communication and to enable encryption of data in motion between the browser and the AppStack. You
                        can to this during installation and initial configuration or at any time afterward. For details, see <xref href="About-this-publication.dita">the
                        instructions for configuring certificates.</xref></p>
                    <p>The gateway handles the communication between the data servers and the application stack. By default,
                        the communication between the gateway, any data servers, and the AppStack is in plain text and is not
                        encrypted. If your enterprise security policy mandates encryption of data in motion, enable secure
                        gateway communication. In this case, secure gateway communication must be configured on all three
                        IBM StoredIQ components. You can enable secure gateway communication during installation and initial
                        configuration or at any time afterward. For details, see <xref href="About-this-publication.dita">“Managing the status of secure gateway
                        communication” on page 54.</xref></p>
                    <p>
                        IBM StoredIQ then uses stunnel to ensure secure communication between the components. If your
                        environment includes data servers of the type DataServer - Distributed, stunnel can also be used to
                        encrypt the communication between the nodes within the Elasticsearch cluster but not for encrypting the
                        communication between the data server and the Elasticsearch cluster. 
                    </p>
                    
                    <p>
                        To secure the communication between the data server and the Elasticsearch cluster and the
                        communication within the Elasticsearch cluster likewise, you can enable Search Guard. For more
                        information, see “Securing Elasticsearch cluster communication with Search Guard” on page 51. If you
                        don't want to do that but still want to restrict client access to port 9200 on the Elasticsearch nodes, you
                        can set up the firewall accordingly. For more information, see “Restricting access to port 9200 on
                        Elasticsearch nodes” on page 52.
                    </p>
                    
                    <p>
                        If FIPS is not enabled, the following cipher suites and encryption algorithm are used for data at rest:
                    </p>
                        <p>TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256</p>
                        <p>TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256</p>
                        <p>You can configure these cipher suites in the configuration files listed in the list of key and certificate files.
                        However, if you run the utilities for enabling stunnel, you might need to make the respective configuration
                        changes again.
                    </p> 
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Encryption of data at rest</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>Starting with IBM StoredIQ version 7.6.0.15, the disk volume on which the Elasticsearch indexes are
                        stored is encrypted by default. IBM StoredIQ uses Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) for disk encryption. For
                        details about key management, see <xref href="About-this-publication.dita">“Key and certificate management”</xref> on page 41.</p>
                    <p>Optionally, you can encrypt the application data on the IBM StoredIQ application stack. For more
                        information, see <xref href="About-this-publication.dita">“Enabling encryption of IBM StoredIQ AppStack application data” on page 50</xref>.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Network isolation</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>If full-text harvesting and Step-up Analytics actions (cartridges) are applied, Elasticsearch indexes can
                        contain potentially sensitive content. Therefore, you should deploy the Elasticsearch nodes in an isolated
                        location on the network (for example, as an enclave or behind a firewall) that is properly secured
                        according to the sensitivity of the data being harvested. Only the IBM StoredIQ application stack and data
                        servers should be allowed to communicate with the Elasticsearch nodes.</p>
                    <p>Also, any data servers and the gateway should be deployed in an isolated network location to allow for
                        communication with authorized clients only.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Access control</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>The following administrative accounts are required. The builder and siqadmin accounts are IBM
                        StoredIQ-specific accounts. For more information about these accounts, see <xref href="About-this-publication.dita">“Default user accounts” </xref>on
                        page 17.</p>
                    <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                            <dt><codeph>root and builder accounts on the Elasticsearch cluster nodes</codeph></dt>
                            <dd><p>Remote login for root can be disabled. However, local root login is required, either log in as root or
                                use the su command to obtain root permissions temporarily.</p>
                                <p>You set the passwords for the root and builder accounts during the configuration process when
                                you start the VM for the first time. You can change these passwords anytime.</p></dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        
                        <dlentry>
                            <dt><codeph>siqadmin account on the AppStack</codeph></dt>
                            <dd><p>Administration of the AppStack usually does not require direct root access. For day-to-day
                                administration, the siqadmin account can be used.</p>
                                <p>You set the password for the siqadmin account during the configuration process when you start the
                                    VM for the first time. You can change this password anytime.</p></dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        
                    </dl>

                </dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <section>
            <title>Default user accounts</title>
            <p>For security reasons, change the passwords for these default accounts after the installation is complete
                so that they are unique and different from the default values. The new password must be 8 to 64
                characters long and must contain characters from at least three of these categories:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    Uppercase letters: A - Z
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    Lowercase letters: a - z
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    Digits: 0 - 9
                </li>
                
                <li>
                    Punctuation marks or special characters: . : = * ˆ / $ # _ + @ &amp; % -
                    Account Default password Description
                </li>
            </ul>
                
                <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="1*" align="left" colsep="1"
                            rowsep="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="1.05*" align="left" colsep="1"
                            rowsep="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="COLSPEC2" colwidth="3.24*" align="left" colsep="1"
                            rowsep="1"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry colname="COLSPEC0" valign="top">Account</entry>
                                <entry colname="COLSPEC1" valign="top">Default password</entry>
                                <entry colname="COLSPEC2" valign="top">Description</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">admin</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">admin</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">
                                    <p>Administrative account for accessing IBM StoredIQ Data Server. Use this account for the initial setup of the data 
                                        server and to create further administrative accounts for routine administration. </p>
                                    <p> Change the password in IBM StoredIQ Data Server under <b>Administration</b> > <b>Configuration</b> > <b>Manage users</b>.
                                    </p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">audituser</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">Passw0rd!</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">
                                    <p>Account for accessing the audit database on the AppStack.</p>
                                    <p>Change the password by running the change_audituser_password script as siqadmin user on the AppStack.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">builder</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">None. Password is set during initial configuration.</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1"><p>Account for setting up and configuring the Elasticsearch cluster. </p>
                                    <p>You can change the password by using the Linux passwd command.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">reportuser</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">St0red1q</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1"><p>Account for accessing the report
                                    database on the AppStack.</p>
                                    <p>Change the password by running the
                                    change_reportuser_password script as
                                    siqadmin user on the AppStack.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">siqadmin</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">Passw0rd!</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1"><p>Administrative account for managing the
                                    AppStack server. For more information,
                                    see the administration guide.</p><p>With new installations, you are
                                        prompted for a new password during the
                                        initial configuration of the AppStack. In
                                        updated deployments, change the
                                        password by using the Linux passwd
                                        command.</p></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row rowsep="1">
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">superadmin</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1">admin</entry>
                                <entry align="left" colsep="1"><p>Administrative account for accessing
                                    IBM StoredIQ Administrator and IBM
                                    StoredIQ Data Server. Use this account
                                    for the initial setup of IBM StoredIQ and
                                    to create further administrative
                                    accounts for routine administration so
                                    that their actions can be audited.</p>
                                    <p>The superadmin account has access to
                                        all IBM StoredIQ applications on the
                                        application stack. To switch
                                        applications, click the triangle arrow
                                        icon and select the application that you
                                        want to access from the list of the
                                        available applications.</p>
                                    <p></p></entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
                
                
                
                
                
            
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
